# SymbolTableApplications
This program is designed to pull data from a .txt file to compare two variables. Currently, it is set to graph the "Per Capita GDP" and "Number of Internet Users Per 100" for various countries across the world. It operates with two data storage structures, including KdTrees and standard arrays. After graphing the points of data, the user is permitted to click somewhere on the graph. The program then uses two distinct methods to find the nearest point to the location of the click through the KdTree interface as well as a linear search interface. The results for time efficiency are printed in the Terminal Window. Repeated tests would require the user to re-run the program. The KDTrees are inefficient for small sets of data but would be significantly more effective with millions or billions of points of data.
 
A further explanation of the inefficiency of KdTrees in this particular implementation is the fact that the linear search for a point simply traverses the array of allPoints to find the closest point. Then the index of that value is stored and used to directly access the country name in all countries. However, the KdTreee implementation is required to run the code for nearest, traversing the data points once to find the nearest point. Then, it needs to run the code for get so that it can actually find the value of the node at that point. Effectively, it traverses the data twice to find the value. Thus, points that are close to the root of the KdTree have great efficiency while farther points are less so. If the nearest method were modified to return the country value directly, this problem would be mitigated.
